---
layout: post
title:  "The Green"
date:   2016-08-30
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---


As soon as we crossed the German-Dutch border and came to a halt in a station
whose name sounded a little bit Kurdish, I knew that it was going to be no
ordinary trip,<!--more--> for there they were:
the lost youth of the Netherlands; three of
them to be exact, wearing hipster jeans and haircuts that you would have to take
a second look at, rolling and smoking joints right there on the platform, in a
manner that spoke "we've got social security, *and* we can smoke weed anywhere
we want; deal with it". What was this surreal country that we were visiting, and
what awaited us therein? Those were the questions that were echoing through my
mind as our train took off and dove into greenness, most passengers sharing a
single destination: the magical city of Amsterdam.

We had left Düsseldorf, our meeting point in Germany, earlier that morning: a
group of three guys and two girls, with no preconception other than the stories
we have heard over from friends and the movie Eurotrip. None of these gave us a
particularly good impression of the city; good in the sense of a taxpaying
citizen. But we were going anyway, because we were middle-class Turks, and we
would have been damned if we had not experienced Europe to its fullest after
going through the infernal procedure of obtaining a Schengen Visa.

We checked in at our hostel. If you searched the dictionary for an adjective to
describe our room, I am sure "luxurious" would have been an antonym, because we
had to share the room with fifteen other people, most of whom were sixteen year
old Brits. We also had to pay a dashing 35 Euros per night individually for our
stay.

After heading out and walking around a bit, we eventually ended up in a coffee
shop called Bulldog, which apparently was a popular destination for tourists. We
received buds from the counter, and the one of us who had experience with this
sort of stuff rolled up a joint gracefully, and offered it to the group in
clockwise fashion. Not having had a lot of experience myself, I did not know
what to expect from this oversized oddly-colored cigarette. And soon enough,
after inhaling a generous amount of smoke, trying to hold it in as my friend
advised, and failing to do so with a handful of coughs, I started to feel funny
and warm on my face. I also seemed to perceive subsequent conversation as
funnier than before, but that was it. I thought that the whole thing was
overrated.

The next day, we went to a park, where my friends partook in the activity of
ingesting hallucinogenic mushrooms. I did not join them, because I was bitten by
a tick two weeks prior, and was on antibiotics. I did not want to push my luck
too much by introducing one too many psychoactive substances to my system. This
turned out to be a wise decision, when I was conveyed that the mushrooms tasted
like shit, and one of us became nauseous and regurgitated the black slimy mass
which constituted the core of the magic mushroom high. Those who succeeded in
keeping it inside also did not feel much of a change, and it became apparent
that our selection from the mushroom-menu was of minor potency.

We went to another coffee shop that afternoon, and proceeded to roll a couple of
joints with a much more generous amount of green, crafted purposefully to cheer
us up at a later time that night. And indeed, when we did consume them, the
effect was immensely disproportionate compared to our previous experience, for
we were high as balls. I did not experience a state of mind such as this one up
until today, in which my perception was so warped, my conscious and
subconscious minds melded together. That moment made me understand what 60's
generation meant when they referred to drug taking as a mind altering
experience. The visual impact was incredible and I was seeing two realities
simultaneously: the base perception of my actual surroundings was superimposed
with a dream world that was broadcasted from inside my brain. This colorful
spectacle was layered on top of what I was seeing at that moment, did not go
away when I closed my eyes, and felt like I was dreaming while I was still
conscious. It consisted of kaleidoscopic imagery with hints of visual
information from my past, such as places, faces, words and sentences, and
shifted really fast as it reacted to what was happening in my surroundings,
which made the experience really hard to define and pinpoint in words.
For a while, I thought that what I was seeing was a projection of
the inner machinations of my mind. It was
exciting and scary, and I wanted it to go away after some time. But it faded
only a little bit, stayed with me as we returned to the hostel to sleep, and was
completely gone only when I woke up in the morning.

That night was the pinnacle of the whole trip, and it kind of went south from
that point on for me. The trip was almost over, and two of us left early, but
not before smoking together some brown shit which had the consistency of
Play-Doh, and which I later found out to be hash. Then, when we sat down at a café, I
made the mistake of ordering an English breakfast, because I'd never had one
before and wondered how it was like. If I had heard of the following description
by Dylan Moran back then, I would have had second thoughts:

> ... the great traditional breakfast, as eaten in Britain and
> Ireland, and lots of other places: fried slices of dead pig, tubes of dead
> pig, some fungus and a chicken's period on a plate. Enjoy!
>
> *Dylan Moran, What It Is (2009)*

Even while eating, I did not consider that this oily,
overproteined lump of ground meat could do me harm.
I was extremely wrong,
because the hash combined with the antibiotics combined with the English
breakfast in my belly started to bring me discomfort, and initiated a chain
reaction of sickness and nausea that lasted for many days.

One of the things that they never advise you to do when taking such trips is
that you need to strengthen your immune system in advance to counter the effect
of the toxic substances you will endure. A great percentage of people I have
surveyed regarding this admitted to getting sick after going to Amsterdam. And
yet there we were, three of us learning this by experience while sitting at a
Starbucks near the main station, waiting for our train to take us back to
Düsseldorf. Me fighting with nausea and trying to stay conscious, my ears
ringing; my friend, who ate a full space cake with three times the normal amount
of stuff despite the shopkeeper's warning, now descending into a really bad
trip; and my friend's girlfriend who now had to assume the role of babysitter
for two tripping and paralyzed adolescents. I remember trying really hard to
keep my cool, concentrating on the beautiful typography on the wall saying
"Welcome to Amsterdam", comforting myself with thoughts like "oh, look at
the swash of that R, isn't it beautiful?". We somehow carried our asses to the
train and were like this the whole way back home. It took me four days to fully
recover from sickness.

There was a lesson to be learned from this trip. A later discussion with my
friends revealed that we hated Amsterdam, at least some parts of it. We all
liked the architecture, houses like skewed matchboxes and narrow stairs,
beautiful canals all throughout. We had a great time riding bicycles, infinitely
stretching roads with unchanging neighborhoods---a dizzying effect that makes you
feel like you are going on a treadmill. But we absolutely hated the weed culture
and the tourists,
roaming the streets like zombies with the singular purpose of getting
fucked up. We hated the shopkeepers who approached every foreigner with distrust
and weariness, treated them as possible drug abusers, and wanted the payment in
advance. We hated the Red Light District for normalizing such abhorrence---a
disgrace to the European society. The city has a problem for sure; however the
most important of all was what I had found out about myself: Before, I was
retarded for wanting to experience Amsterdam. And now... I was a tad less retarded
that I experienced it and did not like it.
